---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0 - Docker"
date:   2021-09-18 21:03:22 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<html>
    <head></head>
    <body>
        <p style="text-align: center;"><strong>How to Install Ruby and Jekyll On Ubuntu the Easy Way!</strong></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Installing Jekyll can be a tideous thing to do for first timers and I will explain how I found out the best and easist way to install on Ubuntu. Before I show step by step I want to explain what Jekyll is. Jekyll is a type of blog software and a static site generator which takes written text in markup languages and uses layouts to create static websites. Jekyll was written in Ruby and is the reason why we need to have it installed on our Ubuntu terminal in order for Jekyll to work. Now to the nitty gritty!</p>
<p>First step is open your Ubuntu terminal. We want to check for any previous versions of ruby, ruby gems, and gcc if any are installed. If you have never installed them just run the following commands just in case.&nbsp;</p>
<ol>
<li>run command&nbsp;<strong><em>ruby -v</em></strong></li>
<li>run command&nbsp;<strong>gem -v</strong></li>
<li>run command&nbsp;<strong>gcc -v, g++ -v, and make -v</strong></li>
</ol>
<p>Second step is if no versions of the top commands were installed is to install ruby and jekyll. Follow the next few steps for installation of ruby and jekyll.&nbsp;</p>
<ol>
<li>run command&nbsp;<strong><em>sudo apt-get install ruby-full build essential zlib1g-dev</em></strong></li>
<li>For this step you do not want to install ruby gems as the root user. So we need to install the gems for the user account. We will need to add variables to your <strong>~/.bashrc</strong> file to configure the gem installation path: COPY the following into your terminal:</li>
<li><strong><em><span class="nb">echo</span> <span class="s1">'# Install Ruby Gems to ~/gems'</span> <span class="o">&gt;&gt;</span> ~/.bashrc </em></strong></li>
<li><strong><em><span class="nb">echo</span> <span class="s1">'export GEM_HOME="$HOME/gems"'</span> <span class="o">&gt;&gt;</span> ~/.bashrc </em></strong></li>
<li><strong><em><span class="nb">echo</span> <span class="s1">'export PATH="$HOME/gems/bin:$PATH"'</span> <span class="o">&gt;&gt;</span> ~/.bashrc <span class="nb">source</span> ~/.bashrc</em></strong></li>
<li>run command&nbsp;<strong><em>gem install jekyll bundler</em></strong></li>
</ol>
<p>After following all these steps you should have everything installed and ready to use Jekyll!</p>
    </body>
</html>